README.md, before:

# Generic Nginx Docker Image

A customizable Nginx Docker image that serves static content from a Git repository. This image automatically clones a specified Git repository at startup and serves its HTML content through Nginx.

## Features

- Automatically clones a Git repository at container startup
- Supports private repositories with username/password authentication
- Configurable repository protocol and domain
- Configurable branch selection
- Serves static content through Nginx
- Lightweight Alpine-based image

## Usage

### Basic Usage

```bash
docker run -p 80:8080 -e REPO=username/repo username/generic-nginx
```

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Required | Default |
|----------|-------------|----------|---------|
| `REPO_PROTOCOL` | Protocol to use for Git repository (https or git) | No | `https` |
| `REPO_DOMAIN` | Domain where the Git repository is hosted | No | `github.com` |
| `REPO` | Repository in owner/name format | Yes | - |
| `REPO_USERNAME` | Username for private repositories | No | - |
| `REPO_PASSWORD` | Password or token for private repositories | No | - |
| `REPO_BRANCH` | Branch of the repository to clone | No | `main` |
| `HTML_DIR` | Directory where Nginx serves content from | No | `/usr/share/nginx/html` |

### Repository Structure

The repository being cloned must contain an `html` directory with the static content to be served.

Example repository structure:
```
repository/
├── html/
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── css/
│   ├── js/
│   └── ...
└── ...
```

## Docker Hub

This image is available on Docker Hub:

```bash
docker pull username/generic-nginx
```

## Building Locally

```bash
git clone https://github.com/username/generic-nginx.git
cd generic-nginx
docker build -t generic-nginx .
```

## GitHub Actions Workflow

This repository includes a GitHub Actions workflow with two main jobs:

1. **Test Job**: Runs on every push to any branch. This job builds the Docker image but does not push it to Docker Hub, serving as a validation step to ensure the image builds correctly.

2. **Build and Push Job**: Runs when a tagged release is created or when manually triggered. This job builds and publishes the Docker image to Docker Hub. For releases, the image is published with the corresponding version tag (e.g., for a release tagged as "v1.2.3", the image will be published with tags "1.2.3", "1.2", and "1").

### Setting Up GitHub Secrets

To enable the automatic publishing workflow, you need to set up the following secrets in your GitHub repository:

1. `DOCKERHUB_USERNAME`: Your Docker Hub username
2. `DOCKERHUB_TOKEN`: Your Docker Hub access token (not your password)

To create a Docker Hub access token:
1. Log in to [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/)
2. Go to Account Settings > Security
3. Click "New Access Token" and follow the prompts

### Creating a Release

To publish a new version of the Docker image:
1. Go to the "Releases" section of your GitHub repository
2. Click "Create a new release"
3. Enter a tag version (e.g., "v1.2.3") and release title
4. Click "Publish release"

The workflow will automatically build and publish the Docker image with the corresponding version tag.

### Manual Workflow Trigger

You can also manually trigger the workflow from the GitHub Actions tab. When triggering manually, you can specify additional tags for the Docker image.

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the license included in the repository.

Commit message:

Update repository URL handling for simplicity
Replaced separate protocol, domain, and authentication variables with a single `REPO_URL` variable. This change simplifies configuration by allowing users to provide the full repository URL directly, including authentication if needed. Corresponding adjustments were made to the entrypoint script and documentation for clarity.

README.md, after:

# Generic Nginx Docker Image

A customizable Nginx Docker image that serves static content from a Git repository. This image automatically clones a specified Git repository at startup and serves its HTML content through Nginx.

## Features

- Automatically clones a Git repository at container startup
- Supports private repositories with authentication included in the URL
- Configurable branch selection
- Serves static content through Nginx
- Lightweight Alpine-based image

## Usage

### Basic Usage

```bash
docker run -p 80:8080 -e REPO_URL=https://github.com/username/repo.git username/generic-nginx
```

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Required | Default |
|----------|-------------|----------|---------|
| `REPO_URL` | Complete URL of the Git repository to clone (including protocol, domain, and authentication if needed) | Yes | - |
| `REPO_BRANCH` | Branch of the repository to clone | No | `main` |
| `HTML_DIR` | Directory where Nginx serves content from | No | `/usr/share/nginx/html` |

### Repository Structure

The repository being cloned must contain an `html` directory with the static content to be served.

Example repository structure:
```
repository/
├── html/
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── css/
│   ├── js/
│   └── ...
└── ...
```

## Docker Hub

This image is available on Docker Hub:

```bash
docker pull username/generic-nginx
```

## Building Locally

```bash
git clone https://github.com/username/generic-nginx.git
cd generic-nginx
docker build -t generic-nginx .
```

## GitHub Actions Workflow

This repository includes a GitHub Actions workflow with two main jobs:

1. **Test Job**: Runs on every push to any branch. This job builds the Docker image but does not push it to Docker Hub, serving as a validation step to ensure the image builds correctly.

2. **Build and Push Job**: Runs when a tagged release is created or when manually triggered. This job builds and publishes the Docker image to Docker Hub. For releases, the image is published with the corresponding version tag (e.g., for a release tagged as "v1.2.3", the image will be published with tags "1.2.3", "1.2", and "1").

### Setting Up GitHub Secrets

To enable the automatic publishing workflow, you need to set up the following secrets in your GitHub repository:

1. `DOCKERHUB_USERNAME`: Your Docker Hub username
2. `DOCKERHUB_TOKEN`: Your Docker Hub access token (not your password)

To create a Docker Hub access token:
1. Log in to [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/)
2. Go to Account Settings > Security
3. Click "New Access Token" and follow the prompts

### Creating a Release

To publish a new version of the Docker image:
1. Go to the "Releases" section of your GitHub repository
2. Click "Create a new release"
3. Enter a tag version (e.g., "v1.2.3") and release title
4. Click "Publish release"

The workflow will automatically build and publish the Docker image with the corresponding version tag.

### Manual Workflow Trigger

You can also manually trigger the workflow from the GitHub Actions tab. When triggering manually, you can specify additional tags for the Docker image.

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the license included in the repository.
